Document v12 API for api-deployments (#1573)
zeit/docs: components/references-mdx/api/v2/endpoints/deployments.mdx

### Create a New Deployment

<Endpoint method="POST" url="/v12/now/deployments" />

Create a new deployment with all the required and intended data.

Before creating a deployment, [upload any required files](#endpoints/deployments/upload-deployment-files) when they cannot be posted at once by inlining files.

#### Request Parameters

| Key                 | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types" hasIcon>Type</HelpLink> | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **name**            | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">String</HelpLink>       | Yes      | A string with the project name used in the deployment URL. The name string has a max length of `52` characters.                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **name**            | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">String</HelpLink>       | Yes      | A string with the project name used in the deployment URL. The name string has a maximum length of `52` characters.                                                                                                                 |
```

| **files**           | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">List</HelpLink>         | Yes      | A list of objects with the files to be deployed.                                                                                                                                                                                |

> | **version**         | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">Integer</HelpLink>      | Yes      | The version of ZEIT Now Platform to use. Must have the value of `2`.                                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: We're removing this property from the API. It's useless.

| **build.env**       | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">Map</HelpLink>          | No       | An object containing the deployment's environment variable names and values to be passed to Builds. _Secrets can be referenced by prefixing the value with `@`_.                                                                |
| **functions**       | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">Map</HelpLink>          | No       | A list of objects used to configure your Serverless Functions. For example, <InlineCode noWrap>{ "api/test.js": { "memory": 3008 } }</InlineCode>.                                                                              |
| **routes**          | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">List</HelpLink>         | No       | A list of routes objects used to rewrite paths to point towards other internal or external paths. For example; `[{ "src": "/docs", "dest": "https://docs.zeit.co" }]`.                                                          |

> | **regions**         | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">List</HelpLink>         | No       | An array of the regions the deployment should be deployed to. For example, `["sfo", "bru"]`.                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **regions**         | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">List</HelpLink>         | No       | An array of the regions the deployment's Serverless Functions should be deployed to. For example, `["sfo", "bru"]`.                                                                                                                                    |
```

| **public**          | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">Boolean</HelpLink>      | No       | Whether a deployment's source and logs are available publicly.                                                                                                                                                                  |

> | **target**          | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">String</HelpLink>       | No       | Either not defined, `staging` or `production`. If `staging`, a staging alias in the format `<project>.<team>.now.sh` will be assigned. If `production`, any aliases defined in `alias` will be assigned.                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **target**          | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">String</HelpLink>       | No       | Either not defined, `staging`, or `production`. If `staging`, a staging alias in the format `<project>.<team>.now.sh` will be assigned. If `production`, any aliases defined in `alias` will be assigned.                        |
```

| **alias**           | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">List</HelpLink>         | No       | Aliases that will get assigned when the deployment is `READY` and the `target` is `production`. The client needs to make a `GET` request to [its API](#endpoints/deployments/get-a-single-deployment) to ensure the assignment. |

> | **projectSettings** | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">Map</HelpLink>          | No       | Project settings that will be applied to deployment. It is required for the first deployment of a project and will be saved for any following deployment.                                                                       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **projectSettings** | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">Map</HelpLink>          | No       | Project settings that will be applied to the deployment. It is required for the first deployment of a project and will be saved for any following deployments.                                                                  |
```

> | **projectSettings** | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">Map</HelpLink>          | No       | Project settings that will be applied to deployment. It is required for the first deployment of a project and will be saved for any following deployment.                                                                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **projectSettings** | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">Map</HelpLink>          | No       | Project settings that will be applied to the deployment. It is required for the first deployment of a project and will be saved for any following deployment.                                                                       |
```

| **data**     | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">String</HelpLink>       | Yes      | The file content, it could be either a base64 (useful for images, etc.) of the files or the plain content for source code. |
| **encoding** | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">Enum</HelpLink>         | No       | The file content, it could be either a base64 (useful for images, etc.) of the files or the plain content for source code. |

##### Project Settings

Project settings that will be applied to the deployment. They are required for the first deployment of a project and will be saved for following deployments.
They can be changed on the dashboard or through the projects API.

| Key                 | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types" hasIcon>Type</HelpLink> | Required | Description                                                                        |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | **framework**       | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">Enum</HelpLink>         | No       | Must either be a framework slug from `@now/frameworks` or `null`.                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **framework**       | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">Enum</HelpLink>         | No       | Must be either a framework slug from `@now/frameworks` or `null`.                  |
```

Reviewer: Can we provide a link to what `@now/frameworks` is?

| **devCommand**      | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">String</HelpLink>       | No       | Either a command that is executed during development or `null` for auto detection. |
| **buildCommand**    | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">String</HelpLink>       | No       | Either a command that is executed during build time or `null` for auto detection.  |

> | **outputDirectory** | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">String</HelpLink>       | No       | The name of a directory or relative path to the output of the build.               |

Reviewer 2: Missing "or `null` for auto detection".

> | **rootDirectory**   | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">String</HelpLink>       | No       | The name of a directory or relative path to the source code of your project.       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **rootDirectory**   | <HelpLink href="#api-basics/types">String</HelpLink>       | No       | The path of a directory that contains the source code if your deployment.       |
```

> If the `publicSource` property is not set for the first deployment, the API will return an error containing information about the detected framework from `@now/frameworks`, which can be used for the next request to complete the deployment.

Reviewer 2: I don't get this. Why is it based on `publicSource`?

Author: That is a typo, it should be `projectSettings` instead.

> If the `publicSource` property is not set for the first deployment, the API will return an error containing information about the detected framework from `@now/frameworks`, which can be used for the next request to complete the deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `publicSource` property is not set for the first deployment, the API will return an error containing information about the detected framework from `@now/frameworks`, which can be used for the next request to complete the deployment.
```
Can we provide a link to what @now/frameworks is?

Reviewer 2: Oh, I actually wanted to mention that. Let's link it instead of making it a code snippet.

Author: Made it a link 👍

<Code lang="json">{`{
  "error": {
    "code": "missing_project_settings",
    "message": "The \`projectSettings\` object is required for new projects, but is missing in the deployment payload",
    "framework": {
      "name": "Next.js",
      "slug": "nextjs",
      "demo": "https://nextjs.now-examples.now.sh",
      "logo": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zeit/now/master/packages/frameworks/logos/next.svg",
      "tagline": "Next.js makes you productive with React instantly — whether you want to build static or dynamic sites. ",
      "description": "A Next.js app and a Serverless Function API.",
      "website": "https://nextjs.org",
      "settings": {
        "buildCommand": {
          "placeholder": "\`next build\` or \`build\` from \`package.json\`"
        },
        "devCommand": {
          "value": "next dev --port $PORT"
        },
        "outputDirectory": {
          "placeholder": "Next.js default"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}`}</Code>

<Note>

>   The query paramter `?skipAutoDetectionConfirmation=1` can be appened to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The query parameter <InlineCode>?skipAutoDetectionConfirmation=1</InlineCode> can be appended to the
```
